# database

This directory contains the files downloaded directly from our publicly available source and an additional file- `merged_df.csv`- that contains the holistic compilation of each raw file. File descriptions can be found below.

## merged_df.csv
This is the final dataframe used to train the cognitive fatigue model. It includes non-duplicated features once all four excel sheets (described below).

## demo_data.csv
This is a subset of `merged_df.csv` to be used as demo input data for which `predict_cf.py` will output predictions. 

## Data_eyeMovements_marginal.csv
Smooth-pursuit performance is denoted by gaze deviation (in cm) and angular velocity gain (in arbitrary units). These metrics were computed for the first 10 selections of trial 1 and last 10 selections of trial 2 of the session, to evaluate the effect of mental fatigue [source](https://dataverse.harvard.edu/dataset.xhtml?persistentId=doi:10.7910/DVN/6IZ0TK&version=1.0).

## Data_gazeDeviation_completeTrial.csv
Smooth-pursuit performance of gaze deviation (in cm) is computed for the complete trial, and compared to the task difficulty level (E: easy, D: difficult) [source](https://dataverse.harvard.edu/dataset.xhtml?persistentId=doi:10.7910/DVN/6IZ0TK&version=1.0).

## Data_performance.csv
Typing performance was recorded for every trial, with trial duration (in seconds), typing speed (in words per minute), corrected error rate (in %) and false selections (in %). The false selections are the errors made by the software in selection of the target [source](https://dataverse.harvard.edu/dataset.xhtml?persistentId=doi:10.7910/DVN/6IZ0TK&version=1.0).

## Data_selfReported.csv
Fatigue level (mental fatigue, physical fatigue, sleepiness) on a scale of 1 (not at all) to 5 (extremely) of the participants was recorded before and after every session. The alertness score was a sum of the caffeine score and the sleep quality. The sleep quality ranges from -2 (very bad) to +2 (very good), not including 0. The caffeine score is obtained based on the number of hours since the last caffeine intake by the participants. If the last caffeine intake was less than 1 hour before the experiment, the caffeine score is 4 and if there has been no caffeine intake during the day, the score is 0. [source](https://dataverse.harvard.edu/dataset.xhtml?persistentId=doi:10.7910/DVN/6IZ0TK&version=1.0).

## Feature Descriptions
The following feature descriptions are those which were used to train the final cognitive fatigue model.

`sessionType`: The type of session being performed. Either morning followed by afternoon (MA) or afternoon followed by morning (AM)

`sessionTime`: The time the session is performed. Either morning (M) or afternoon (A).

`trialDifficultyLevel`: How difficult the trial is. Either easy (E) or difficult (D).

`angular_velocity_gain`: Ratio of the eye movement angular velocity and the target angular velocity.

`mentalFatigue_before`: How difficult is it to concentrate and think clearly? (1-4)

`physicalFatigue_before`: How would you rate your level of bodily exhaustion? (1-5)

`sleepiness_before`: How sleepy are you? (1-4)

`gazeDeviation_complete`: Root-mean square of the position error between the path created by the target and the gaze positions generated by following the target, for all selections in a trial.

`mental_derivative`: A feature engineered during the model tuning process. The change in marginal gaze deviation divided by the change in mental fatigue score.

`sleepScore`: How well did you sleep last night? (-2, -1, 1, 2)

`caffeineScore`: How much caffeine have you had, and how long ago was it? (0-4) Number of hours since last caffeine intake. Options: "no caffeine today, more than four hours, between three and four hours, between one and two hours and less than one hour."

`alertnessScore`: Sum of the sleep quality of the night before and caffeine effectiveness. (-2-6)

`trialDuration`: Duration of a trial, where a trial starts with the selection of the first character and ends with the selection of the last character.

`typingSpeed`: Ratio of the number of words typed in a trial and the trial duration, where one word consisted of five characters, including spaces.

`correctedErrorRate`: Ratio of the backspace selections and the typed characters in a trial

`falseSelections`: The smooth-pursuit eye movements which had the median polar angle difference greater than (angular limits−20◦).

For additional feature information, please refer to the [study](https://dataverse.harvard.edu/dataset.xhtml?persistentId=doi:10.7910/DVN/6IZ0TK) from which this data originated.

